First draft of the docs for TF + Datasets (#4457)
huggingface/datasets: docs/source/use_with_tensorflow.mdx

# Using Datasets with TensorFlow

> ## Tensors

Author: Added!

>>> ds = Dataset.from_dict({"data": data}, features=features)
>>> ds = ds.with_format("tf")
>>> ds[0]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2, 2), dtype=int64, numpy=
 array([[1, 2],
        [3, 4]])>}
>>> ds[:2]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2, 2, 2), dtype=int64, numpy=
 array([[[1, 2],
         [3, 4]],
 
        [[5, 6],
         [7, 8]]])>}
```

### Other feature types

[`ClassLabel`] data are properly converted to tensors:

```py
>>> from datasets import Dataset, Features, ClassLabel
>>> data = [0, 0, 1]
>>> features = Features({"data": ClassLabel(names=["negative", "positive"])})
>>> ds = Dataset.from_dict({"data": data}, features=features) 
>>> ds = ds.with_format("tf")  
>>> ds[:3]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(3,), dtype=int64, numpy=array([0, 0, 1])>
```

Strings are also supported:

```py
>>> from datasets import Dataset, Features 
>>> text = ["foo", "bar"]
>>> data = [0, 1] 
>>> ds = Dataset.from_dict({"text": text, "data": data})  
>>> ds = ds.with_format("tf") 
>>> ds[:2]
{'text': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2,), dtype=string, numpy=array([b'foo', b'bar'], dtype=object)>,
 'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2,), dtype=int64, numpy=array([0, 1])>}
```

> But if you want, you can explicitly format certain columns and leave the other columns unformatted:

Reviewer: Maybe write a sentence or two about scenarios in which you might want to do this?

```suggestion
You can also explicitly format certain columns and leave the other columns unformatted:
```

```py
>>> ds = ds.with_format("tf", columns=["data"], output_all_columns=True)
>>> ds[:2]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2,), dtype=int64, numpy=array([0, 1])>,
 'text': ['foo', 'bar']}
```

The [`Image`] and [`Audio`] feature types are not supported yet.

## Data loading

> ### Interoperability with tf.data

Reviewer: We can probably remove this section header and let this content fall under the `## Data loading` header.

Author: Done! (Will push in a sec)

from your dataset and `fit()` on that, but that sounds like a lot of unnecessary work. Instead, if you want to stream
data from your dataset on-the-fly, we recommend converting your dataset to a `tf.data.Dataset` using the
`to_tf_dataset()` method.

The `tf.data.Dataset` class covers a wide range of use-cases - it is often created from Tensors in memory, or using a load function to read files on disc
or external storage. The dataset can be transformed arbitrarily with the `map()` method, or methods like `batch()`
and `shuffle()` can be used to create a dataset that's ready for training. These methods do not modify the stored data
in any way - instead, the methods build a data pipeline graph that will be executed when the dataset is iterated over,
usually during model training or inference. This is different from the `map()` method of Hugging Face `Dataset` objects,
which runs the map function immediately and saves the new or changed columns.

Since the entire data preprocessing pipeline can be compiled in a `tf.data.Dataset`, this approach allows for massively
parallel, asynchronous data loading and training. However, the requirement for graph compilation can be a limitation,

> particularly for HuggingFace tokenizers, which are usually not (yet!) compilable as part of a TF graph. As a result, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
particularly for Hugging Face tokenizers, which are usually not (yet!) compilable as part of a TF graph. As a result, 
```

we usually advise pre-processing the dataset as a Hugging Face dataset, where arbitrary Python functions can be
used, and then converting to `tf.data.Dataset` afterwards using `to_tf_dataset()` to get a batched dataset ready for

> training. To see examples of this approach, please see the example scripts(link) or notebooks(link) for `transformers`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
training. To see examples of this approach, please see the [example scripts](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/main/examples/tensorflow) or [notebooks](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/main/notebooks#tensorflow-examples) for `transformers`.
```

Author: I pushed this in my own branch, but it's fixed!

### Using `to_tf_dataset()`

Using `to_tf_dataset()` is straightforward. Once your dataset is preprocessed and ready, simply call it like so:

```py
>>> from datasets import Dataset
>>> data = {"inputs": [[1, 2],[3, 4]], "labels": [0, 1]}
>>> ds = Dataset.from_dict(data)
>>> tf_ds = ds.to_tf_dataset(
            columns=["inputs"],
            label_cols=["labels"],
            batch_size=2,
            shuffle=True
            )
```

The returned `tf_ds` object here is now fully ready to train on, and can be passed directly to `model.fit()`! Note
that you set the batch size when creating the dataset, and so you don't need to specify it when calling `fit()`:

```py
>>> model.fit(tf_ds, epochs=2)
```

> For a full description of the arguments, please see the `to_tf_dataset()` documentation(link). In many cases,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full description of the arguments, please see the [`~Dataset.to_tf_dataset`] documentation. In many cases,
```

Author: Done!

you will also need to add a `collate_fn` to your call. This is a function that takes multiple elements of the dataset
and combines them into a single batch. When all elements have the same length, the built-in default collator will
suffice, but for more complex tasks a custom collator may be necessary. In particular, many tasks have samples

> with varying sequence lengths which will require a collator that can pad batches correctly. (Link to transformers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with varying sequence lengths which will require a [collator](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/data_collator) that can pad batches correctly. (Link to transformers
```

`tf.Tensor` objects out of our datasets, and how to stream data from Hugging Face `Dataset` objects to Keras methods
like `model.fit()`.

### Dataset format

By default, datasets return regular Python objects: integers, floats, strings, lists, etc.

To get TensorFlow tensors instead, you can set the format of the dataset to `tf`:

```py
>>> from datasets import Dataset
>>> data = [[1, 2],[3, 4]]
>>> ds = Dataset.from_dict({"data": [[1, 2],[3, 4]]})
>>> ds = ds.with_format("tf")
>>> ds[0]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2,), dtype=int64, numpy=array([1, 2])>}
>>> ds[:2]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2, 2), dtype=int64, numpy=
array([[1, 2],
       [3, 4]])>}
```

<Tip>

A [`Dataset`] object is a wrapper of an Arrow table, which allows fast reads from arrays in the dataset to TensorFlow tensors.

</Tip>

This can be useful for converting your dataset to a dict of `Tensor` objects, or for writing a generator to load TF
samples from it. If you wish to convert the entire dataset to `Tensor`, simply query the full dataset:

```py
>>> ds[:]
{'data': <tf.Tensor: shape=(2, 2), dtype=int64, numpy=
array([[1, 2],
       [3, 4]])>}
```

> ### N-dimensional arrays

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## N-dimensional arrays
```

from your dataset and `fit()` on that, but that sounds like a lot of unnecessary work. Instead, we recommend converting
your dataset to a `tf.data.Dataset` using the `to_tf_dataset()` method.

The `tf.data.Dataset`` class covers a wide range of use-cases - it is often created from Tensors in memory, or using a load function to read files on disc
or external storage. The dataset can be transformed arbitrarily with the `map()` method, or methods like `batch()`
and `shuffle()` can be used to create a dataset that's ready for training. These methods do not modify the stored data
in any way - instead, the methods build a data pipeline graph that will be executed when the dataset is iterated over,
usually during model training or inference. This is different from the `map()` method of Hugging Face `Dataset` objects,
which runs the map function immediately and saves the new or changed columns.

Since the entire data preprocessing pipeline can be compiled in a `tf.data.Dataset`, this approach allows for massively
parallel, asynchronous data loading and training. However, the requirement for graph compilation can be a limitation,

> particularly for HuggingFace tokenizers, which are usually not (yet!) compilable as part of a TF graph. As a result, for NLP
> tasks we usually advise pre-processing the dataset as a Hugging Face dataset, where arbitrary Python functions can be

Reviewer 2: no need to mention "NLP", we can keep it general I think ;)
```suggestion
particularly for HuggingFace tokenizers, which are usually not (yet!) compilable as part of a TF graph. As a result, 
we usually advise pre-processing the dataset as a Hugging Face dataset, where arbitrary Python functions can be
```

### Using `to_tf_dataset()`

Using `to_tf_dataset()` is straightforward. Once your dataset is preprocessed and ready, simply call it like so:

```py
>>> from datasets import Dataset
>>> data = {"inputs": [[1, 2],[3, 4]], "labels": [0, 1]}
>>> ds = Dataset.from_dict(data)
>>> tf_ds = ds.to_tf_dataset(
            columns=["inputs"],
            label_cols=["labels"],
            batch_size=2,
            shuffle=True
            )
```

The returned `tf_ds` object here is now fully ready to train on, and can be passed directly to `model.fit()`!

For a full description of the arguments, please see the `to_tf_dataset()` documentation(link). In many cases,
you will also need to add a `collate_fn` to your call. This is a function that takes multiple elements of the dataset
and combines them into a single batch. When all elements have the same length, the built-in default collator will
suffice, but for more complex tasks a custom collator may be necessary. In particular, many NLP tasks have samples
with varying sequence lengths which will require a collator that can pad batches correctly. (Link to transformers

> collators or examples here?)

Reviewer 2: Same here, maybe it can be more general than just NLP

Author: Fixed!

### Caveats and limitations

> Right now, `to_tf_dataset()` focuses on making "ready-to-use" datasets with batching and data collation applied.
> However, particularly for computer vision tasks, we realize that it would often be preferable to convert a
> Hugging Face `Dataset` to an unbatched, unmodified `tf.data.Dataset` and then perform batching/shuffling using `tf.data`
> methods. We're actively working on adding this feature and making it performant, so watch this space!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right now, `to_tf_dataset()` always return a batched dataset, we will add support for unbatched datasets soon !
```
